I am a computer science and engineering
professor here at Carnegie Mellon and my
research focuses on usable privacy and
security and so my friends like to give
me examples of their frustrations with
computing systems especially
frustrations related to unusable privacy
and security excuse me
so passwords are something that I hear a
lot about a lot of people are frustrated
with passwords and you know it's bad
enough when you have to have one really
good password that you can remember but
nobody else is going to be able to guess
but what do you do when you have
accounts on a hundred different systems
and you're supposed to have a unique
password for each of these systems it's
tough at Carnegie Mellon they used to
make it actually pretty easy for us to
remember our passwords the password
requirement up through 2009 was just
that you had to have a password with at
least one character pretty easy but then
they changed things and at the end of
2009 they announced that we were going
to have a new policy and this new policy
required passwords that were at least 8
characters long with an uppercase letter
lowercase letter digits symbol you
couldn't use the same character more
than three times and it wasn't allowed
to be in a dictionary now when they
implemented this new policy a lot of
people my colleagues and friends came up
to me and they said wow now that's
really unusable why are they doing this
to us and why didn't you stop them and I
said well you know what they didn't ask
me but I got curious and I decided to go
talk to the people in charge of our
computer systems and find out what led
them to introduce this new policy and
they said that the university had joined
a consortium of universities and one of
the requirements of membership was that
we had to have stronger passwords that
complied with some new requirements and
these requirements were that our
passwords had to have a lot of entropy
entropy is a complicated term but
basically it measures the strength of
words but the thing is there isn't
actually a standard measure of entropy
now the National Institutes of Standards
and Technology has a set of guidelines
which I have kind of some rules of thumb
for measuring entropy but they don't
have anything too specific and the
reason that they only have rules of
thumb is it turns out they don't
actually have any good data on passwords
in fact their report states
unfortunately we do not have much data
on the passwords users choose under
particular rules this would like to
obtain more data on the passwords users
actually choose but system
administrators are understandably
reluctant to reveal password data to
others so this this is a problem but our
research group looked at it as an
opportunity we said well there's a need
for good password data maybe we can
collect some good password data and
actually advance the state of the art
here so the first thing we did is we got
a bag of candy bars and we walked around
campus and talked to students faculty
and staff and asked them for information
about their passwords now we didn't say
give us your password now we just asked
them about their password how long is it
doesn't have a digit does it have a
symbol and were you annoyed and having
to create a new one last week so we got
results from 470 students faculty and
staff and indeed we confirmed that the
new policy was very annoying but we also
found that people said they felt more
secure with these new passwords we found
that most people knew they were not
supposed to write their password down
and only 13% of them did but
disturbingly 80% of people said they
were reusing their password now this is
actually more dangerous than writing
your password down because it makes you
much more susceptible to attackers so if
you have to write your passwords down
but don't reuse them we also found some
interesting things about the symbols
people use in passwords so CMU allows 32
possible symbols but as you can see
there's only a small number that most
people are using so we're not actually
getting very much strength from the
symbols in our passwords right so this
was a really interesting study
now we had data from 470 people but in
the scheme of things that's really not
very much password data and so we looked
around to see where could we find
additional password data so it turns out
there are a lot of people going around
stealing passwords and they often go and
post these passwords on the internet so
we were able to get access to some of
these stolen password sets this is still
not really ideal for a research though
because it's not entirely clear where
all of these passwords came from or
exactly what policies were in effect
when people created these passwords so
we wanted to find some better source of
data so we decided that one thing we
could do is we could do a study and have
people actually create passwords for our
study so we used a service called Amazon
Mechanical Turk and this is a service
where you can post a small job online
that takes a minute a few minutes an
hour and pay people a penny ten cents a
few dollars to do a task for you and
then you pay them through amazon.com so
we paid people about 50 cents to create
a password following our rules and
answering a survey and then we paid them
again to come back two days later and
log in using their password and
answering another survey so we did this
and we collected 5,000 passwords and we
gave people a bunch of different
policies to create passwords with so
some people had a pretty easy policy we
call it basic eight and here the only
rule was that your password had to have
at least eight characters then some
people had a much harder policy and this
was very similar to the CMU policy that
it had to have eight characters
including uppercase lowercase digit
symbol and pass a dictionary check and
one of the other policies we tried and
there were a whole bunch more but one of
the ones we tried was called basic 16
and the only requirement here was that
your password had to have at least 16
characters all right so now we had 5,000
passwords and so we have much more
detailed information again we see that
there's only a small number of symbols
that people are actually using in their
passwords we also wanted to get an idea
of how strong the passwords were that
people were
but as you may recall there isn't a good
measure of password strength so what we
decided to do was to see how long it
would take to crack these passwords
using the best cracking tools that the
bad guys are using or that we could find
information about in the research
literature so to give you an idea of how
bad guys go about cracking passwords
they will steal a password file that
will have all of the passwords in kind
of a scrambled form called a hash and so
what they'll do is they'll make a guess
as to what a password is run it through
a hashing function and see whether it
matches the passwords they have on their
stolen password list so a dumb attacker
will try every password in order they'll
start with a aaaa and move on to a a a B
and this is going to take a really long
time before they get any passwords that
people are really likely to actually
have a smart attacker on the other hand
does something much more clever they
look at the passwords that are known to
be popular from these stolen password
sets and they guess those first so
they're gonna start by guessing password
and then they'll guess I love you and
monkey and one two three four five six
seven eight because these are the
passwords that are most likely for
people to have in fact some of you
probably have these passwords so what we
found by running all of these 5,000
passwords we collected through these
tests to see how strong they were we
found that the the long passwords were
actually pretty strong and the complex
passwords were pretty strong too
however when we looked at the survey
data we saw that people were really
frustrated by the very complex passwords
and the long passwords were a lot more
usable and in some cases they were
actually even stronger than the complex
passwords so this suggests that instead
of telling people that they need to put
all these symbols and numbers and crazy
things into their passwords we might be
better off just telling people to have
long passwords now here's the problem
though some people had long passwords
that actually weren't very strong you
can make long passwords that are still
the sort of thing that an attacker could
easily guess so
we need to do more than just say long
passwords there has to be some
additional requirements and some of our
ongoing research is looking at what
additional requirements we should add to
make for stronger passwords that also
are going to be easy for people to
remember and type another approach to
getting people to have stronger
passwords is to use a password meter
here are some examples you may have seen
these on the internet when you were
creating passwords we decided to do a
study to find out whether these password
meters actually work do they actually
help people have stronger passwords and
if so which ones are better so we tested
password meters that were different
sizes shapes colors different words next
to them and we even tested one that was
a dancing bunny as you type a better
password
the bunny dances faster and faster this
was this was pretty fun what we found
was that password meters do work most of
the password meters were actually
effective and the dancing bunny was very
effective too
but the password meters that were the
most effective were the ones that made
you work harder before they gave you
that thumbs up and said you were doing a
good job and in fact we found that most
of the password meters on the Internet
today are too soft they tell you you're
doing a good job too early and if they
would just wait a little bit before
giving you that positive feedback you
probably would have better passwords now
another approach to better passwords
perhaps is to use pass phrases instead
of passwords so this was an xkcd cartoon
from a couple years ago and the
cartoonist suggests that we should all
use pass phrases and if you look at the
second row of this cartoon you can see
there cartoonist is suggesting that the
pass phrase correct horse battery staple
would be a very strong passphrase and
something really easy to remember he
says in fact you've already remembered
it and so we decided to do a research
study to find out whether this was true
or not
in fact everybody who I talked to who I
mentioned I'm doing password research
they point out this cartoon no have you
seen it not xkcd correct horse battery
staple right so we did the research
to see what would actually happen so in
our study we used Mechanical Turk again
and we had the computer pick the random
words in the passphrase now the reason
we did this is that humans are not very
good at picking random words if we ask
the human to do it they would pick
things that were not very random so we
tried a few different conditions in one
condition the computer picked from a
dictionary of the very common words in
the English language and so you'd get
past phrases like try they're three come
and we looked at that and we said well
that doesn't really seem very memorable
so then we tried picking words that came
from specific parts of speech so how
about now in verb adjective noun that
comes up with something that's sort of
sentence like so you can get a
passphrase like plan build sure power or
and determines red drug and they seemed
a little bit more memorable and maybe
maybe people would like those a little
bit better we wanted to compare them
with passwords and so we had the
computer pick random passwords and these
are nice and short but as you can see
they don't really look very memorable
and then we decided to try something
called a pronounceable password so here
the computer picks random syllables and
puts them together so you have something
sort of pronounceable like two fruity
and vada sabi that one kind of rolls off
your tongue so these are random
passwords that were generated by our
computer so what we found in this study
was that surprisingly passphrases we're
not actually all that good people were
not really better at remembering the
pass phrases than these random passwords
and because the pass phrases are longer
they took longer to type and people made
more errors while typing them in so it's
not really a clear win for pass phrases
sorry off you xkcd fans on the other
hand we did find that pronounceable
passwords worked surprisingly well and
so we actually are doing some more
research to see if we can make that
approach work even better
so one of the problems with some of the
studies that we've done is that because
they're all done using Mechanical Turk
these are not people's real passwords
they're the passwords that they
created or the computer created for them
for our study and we wanted to know
whether people would actually behave the
same way with their real passwords so we
talked to the Information Security
office at Carnegie Mellon and asked them
if we could have everybody's real
passwords not surprisingly they were a
little bit reluctant to share them with
us but we were actually able to work out
a system with them where they put all of
the real passwords for 25,000 CMU
students faculty and staff into a locked
computer in a locked room not connected
to the internet and they ran code on it
that we wrote to analyze these passwords
they audited our code they ran the code
and so we never actually saw anybody's
password we got some interesting results
and those of you Temper students in the
back will be very interested in this so
we found that the passwords created by
people affiliated with the school of
computer science for actually 1.8 times
stronger than those affiliated with the
business school we have lots of other
really interesting demographic
information as well
the other interesting thing that we
found is that when we compared the
Carnegie Mellon passwords to the
Mechanical Turk generated passwords
there was actually a lot of similarities
and so this helped validate our research
method and show that actually collecting
passwords using these Mechanical Turk
studies is actually a valid way to study
passwords so that was good news okay I
want to close by talking about some
insights that I gained while on
sabbatical last year in the Carnegie
Mellon art school one of the things that
I did is I made a number of quilts and I
made this quilt here it's called
security blanket and this quilt has the
1000 most frequent passwords stolen from
the Rakhi website and the size of the
password is proportional to how
frequently they appeared in the stolen
data set and what I did is I I created
this word cloud and I went through all
1,000 words and I categorized them in to
have loosed thematic categories and it
was some cases it was kind of difficult
to figure out what category they should
be in and then I color-coded them
so we should here's some examples of the
difficulty so Justin is that the name of
the user their boyfriend their son maybe
they're a Justin Bieber fan or princess
is that a nickname are they Disney
Princess fans or maybe that's the name
of their cat I love you appears many
times in many different languages
there's a lot of love in these passwords
if you look carefully you'll see there's
also some profanity but it was really
interesting to me to see that there's a
lot more love than hate in these
passwords and their animals a lot of
animals and monkey is the most common
animal and the fourteenth most popular
password overall and this was really
curious to me and I wondered why are
monkeys so popular and so in our last
password study any time we detected
somebody creating a password with the
word monkey in it we asked them why they
had a monkey in their password and what
we found out we found 17 people so far I
think who have the word monkey we found
out about a third of them said that they
have a pet named monkey or a friend
whose nickname is monkey and about a
third of them said that they just like
monkeys and monkeys are really cute and
that guy is really cute all right so it
seems that at the end of the day when we
make passwords we either make something
that's really easy to type a common
pattern or things that remind us of the
word password or the account that we've
created the password for or whatever or
we think about things that make us happy
and we create our password based on
things that make us happy and while this
makes typing and remembering your
password more fun it also makes it a lot
easier to guess your password so I know
a lot of these TED Talks are
inspirational and they make you think
about nice happy things but when you're
creating your password try to think
about something else thank you
[Applause]
you